Update extended_stats aggregation. (#9420)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _aggregations/metric/extended-stats.md

# Extended stats aggregations

> The `extended_stats` aggregation is a more comprehensive version of the [`stats`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/aggregations/metric/stats/) aggregation. As well as the basic statistical measures provided by stats, `extended_stats` calculates:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `extended_stats` aggregation is a more comprehensive version of the [`stats`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/aggregations/metric/stats/) aggregation. As well as the basic statistical measures provided by `stats`, `extended_stats` calculates the following:
```

- Sum of squares
- Variance
- Population variance
- Sampling variance
- Standard deviation
- Population standard deviation
- Sampling standard deviation
- Standard deviation bounds:
  - Upper
  - Lower
  - Population upper
  - Population lower
  - Sampling upper
  - Sampling lower

The standard deviation and variance are population statistics; they are always equal to the population standard deviation and variance, respectively.

> The `std_deviation_bounds` object provides values representing an interval of plus or minus a number of standard deviations from the mean (two by default). This object is always displayed, but is meaningful only for normally distributed data. It's up to you to verify that your data set has a normal distribution.

Reviewer 2: ~object~

Author: @sandeshkr419 Are you suggesting deleting "object" from "The `std_devaition_bounds` object", from "This object" in the second sentence, or both?

More generally, I take it "object" is not generally used to describe a data entity in OpenSearch? What would you use instead?

Reviewer 3: We do describe JSON objects as objects in OpenSearch so this usage is appropriate and is aligned with the terminology in our other documentation. When describing fields within an object, we sometimes create sections titled "x object". I suggest keeping the word "object" here.

> The `std_deviation_bounds` object provides values representing an interval of plus or minus a number of standard deviations from the mean (two by default). This object is always displayed, but is meaningful only for normally distributed data. It's up to you to verify that your data set has a normal distribution.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `std_deviation_bounds` object represents a range that spans the specified number of standard deviations above and below the mean (default is two standard deviations). This object is always included in the output but is meaningful only for normally distributed data. Before interpreting these values, verify that your dataset follows a normal distribution.
```

## Parameters

> The `extended_stats` aggregation takes the following parameters: 

Reviewer 3: A sentence introducing a table should end with a period.
```suggestion
The `extended_stats` aggregation takes the following parameters.
```

| Parameter | Required/Optional | Data type             | Description |
| :--       | :--               | :--                   | :--         |

> | `field`   | Required          | String                | Name of the field for which the extended stats are returned. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `field`   | Required          | String                | The name of the field for which the extended stats are returned. |
```

> | `sigma`   | Optional          | Double (non-negative) | One-tailed interval represented by the `std_deviation_bounds` object. Default is 2. |

Reviewer 3: In the definition of `std_deviaion_bounds` above, we say +- 2sigma (meaning, a two-tailed interval).  Should this be
```suggestion
| `sigma`   | Optional          | Double (non-negative) | The number of standard deviations above and below the mean used to calculate the `std_deviation_bounds` interval. Default is `2`. |
```
Also, should we say what happens if you set `sigma` to 0?

Author: Yes, I think that's a better way to say it, especially since the readers aren't necessarily statisticians.

0 is a legitimate value for `sigma`, just not an interesting one. It reduces the bounds interval to zero -- the bounds are all equal to the mean. IMO this is the expected result and doesn't need to be documented, but I'll defer if anyone thinks otherwise.

> | `missing` | Optional          | Numeric        | Value to assign missing instances of the field. If not given, documents with missing values are omitted from the extended stats. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `missing` | Optional          | Numeric        | The value to assign missing instances of the field. If not given, documents with missing values are omitted from the extended stats. |
```

> | `missing` | Optional          | Numeric        | The value to assign missing instances of the field. If not given, documents with missing values are omitted from the extended stats. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `missing` | Optional          | Numeric        | The value assigned to missing instances of the field. If not provided, documents containing missing values are omitted from the extended stats. |
```

## Example

> This example returns extended stats for `taxful_total_price` in the ecommerce sample data:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This example returns extended stats for `taxful_total_price` in the e-commerce sample data:
```

> This example returns extended stats for `taxful_total_price` in the e-commerce sample data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example request returns extended stats for `taxful_total_price` in the e-commerce sample data:
```

> 

Reviewer: Line 45: "data" => "dataset"?

Author: yes

Reviewer: @dwelsch-esi Let's add for clarity, then.

> The following example request returns extended stats for `taxful_total_price` in the sample e-commerce data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example request returns extended stats for `taxful_total_price` in the OpenSearch Dashboards sample e-commerce data:
```

```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> ## Example response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: @dwelsch-esi It looks like we added an extra heading here, so I removed it.

```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Example response

> The response is as follows:

Reviewer: Can we add a little more context here? Something like "The response contains extended stats for `taxful_total_price`:"

}
```

## Defining bounds

> You can set the `std_deviation_bounds` plus-or-minus interval to any non-negative value using the `sigma` parameter.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can define the number of standard deviations used to calculate the `std_deviation_bounds` interval by setting the `sigma` parameter to any non-negative value.
```

### Example: Defining bounds

> Set the `std_deviation_bounds` standard deviations to 3:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Set the `std_deviation_bounds` standard deviations to `3`:
```

Reviewer 3: It's up to you whether you want to keep this example. In general, users know how to pass parameters in a request.

Author: It's a short example, let's leave it in. I'll limit such examples in the future to ones that illustrate something interesting.

> Set the `std_deviation_bounds` standard deviations to `3`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the number of `std_deviation_bounds` standard deviations to `3`:
```

    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

This changes the standard deviation bounds:

```json
{
...
  "aggregations": {
...
      "std_deviation_bounds": {
        "upper": 233.44837084770438,
        "lower": -83.33751356160813,
        "upper_population": 233.44837084770438,
        "lower_population": -83.33751356160813,
        "upper_sampling": 233.46531398752978,
        "lower_sampling": -83.35445670143353
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Missing values

> You can assign a value to missing instances of the aggregated field. See [Missing aggregations]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/bucket/missing/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can assign a value to missing instances of the aggregated field. See [Missing aggregations]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/bucket/missing/) for more information.
```

> Prepare an example by inserting an index as follows:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Prepare an example index by ingesting the following documents:
```

```json
POST _bulk
{ "create": { "_index": "students", "_id": "1" } }
{ "name": "John Doe", "gpa": 3.89, "grad_year": 2022}
{ "create": { "_index": "students", "_id": "2" } }
{ "name": "Jonathan Powers", "grad_year": 2025 }
{ "create": { "_index": "students", "_id": "3" } }
{ "name": "Jane Doe", "gpa": 3.52, "grad_year": 2024 }
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Example: Replacing a missing value

> Compute `extended_stats`, replacing the missing GPA field with 0:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Compute `extended_stats`, replacing the missing GPA field with `0`:
```

```json
GET students/_search
{
  "size": 0,
  "aggs": {
    "extended_stats_gpa": {
      "extended_stats": {
        "field": "gpa",
        "missing": 0
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The response is as follows. Compare to the next example, where missing values are ignored.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The response is as follows. Compare to the next example, where missing values are ignored:
```

> The response is as follows. Compare to the next example, where missing values are ignored:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response is as follows:
```

Author: ```suggestion
In the response, all missing values of `gpa` are replaced with `0`:
```

> 

Reviewer: Line 176: Same comment re: context. Something like "In the response, the missing value is replaced with...."

```json
...
  "aggregations": {
    "extended_stats_gpa": {
      "count": 3,
      "min": 0,
      "max": 3.890000104904175,
      "avg": 2.4700000286102295,
      "sum": 7.4100000858306885,
      "sum_of_squares": 27.522500681877148,
      "variance": 3.0732667526245145,
      "variance_population": 3.0732667526245145,
      "variance_sampling": 4.609900128936772,
      "std_deviation": 1.7530735160353415,
      "std_deviation_population": 1.7530735160353415,
      "std_deviation_sampling": 2.147067797936705,
      "std_deviation_bounds": {
        "upper": 5.976147060680912,
        "lower": -1.0361470034604534,
        "upper_population": 5.976147060680912,
        "lower_population": -1.0361470034604534,
        "upper_sampling": 6.7641356244836395,
        "lower_sampling": -1.8241355672631805
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Example: Ignoring a missing value

> Compute `extended_stats`, but without assigning the `missing` parameter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compute `extended_stats` but without assigning the `missing` parameter:
```

```json
GET students/_search
{
  "size": 0,
  "aggs": {
    "extended_stats_gpa": {
      "extended_stats": {
        "field": "gpa"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The aggregator calculates the extended statistics, omitting documents with missing values in the field (the default behavior).

Reviewer 3: I would not call out specific components:
```suggestion
OpenSearch calculates the extended statistics, omitting documents with missing values in the field (the default behavior):
```

> OpenSearch calculates the extended statistics, omitting documents with missing values in the field (the default behavior):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenSearch calculates the extended statistics, omitting documents containing missing values in the field (the default behavior):
```

Author: ```suggestion
OpenSearch calculates the extended statistics, omitting documents containing missing field values (the default behavior):
```

> 

Reviewer: Line 226: "missing values in the field" => "missing field values"?

```json
...
  "aggregations": {
    "extended_stats_gpa": {
      "count": 2,
      "min": 3.5199999809265137,
      "max": 3.890000104904175,
      "avg": 3.7050000429153442,
      "sum": 7.4100000858306885,
      "sum_of_squares": 27.522500681877148,
      "variance": 0.03422502293587115,
      "variance_population": 0.03422502293587115,
      "variance_sampling": 0.0684500458717423,
      "std_deviation": 0.18500006198883057,
      "std_deviation_population": 0.18500006198883057,
      "std_deviation_sampling": 0.2616295967044675,
      "std_deviation_bounds": {
        "upper": 4.075000166893005,
        "lower": 3.334999918937683,
        "upper_population": 4.075000166893005,
        "lower_population": 3.334999918937683,
        "upper_sampling": 4.228259236324279,
        "lower_sampling": 3.1817408495064092
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> The document with the missing GPA is omitted from this calculation. Note the difference in `count`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The document containing the missing GPA value is omitted from this calculation. Note the difference in `count`.
```
